.\"  Copyright (c) 2009-2010 Gluster, Inc. <http://www.gluster.com>
.\"  This file is part of GlusterFS.
.\"
.\"  GlusterFS is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"  it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published
.\"  by the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License,
.\"  or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"  GlusterFS is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\"  WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\"  General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  long with this program.  If not, see
.\"  <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH GlusterFS 8 "Cluster Filesystem" "19 March 2010" "Gluster Inc."
.SH NAME
glusterfs-volgen  \- Tool to generate GlusterFS volume files
.SH SYNOPSYS
.B glusterfs-volgen --name <volumename>
.I [options] <server1:/export/directory> <server1:/export/directory> ...
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
glusterfs-volgen tool is used to generate glusterfs volume files as per the
options given.

GlusterFS volume files are very important component of gluster filesystem,
using which \fBglusterfs\fR(8) will behave as a client component or a server
component. Each glusterfs modules (in technical terms, a translator) is defined
in this volume files in certain order to achieve the required behavior from
filesystem.

glusterfs-volgen tool abstracts the complexities of volumefile logic into a
simple command line tool, which based on user's requirement (by options
provided) generates the corresponding error-free volume file.


.SH OPTIONS
.PP

\fB\-n \-\-name\fR=VOLUME-NAME
This is a mandatory argument required for glusterfs-volgen.
.TP
\fB\-r \-\-raid\fR=[0|1]
Supported options are 0 (stripe), 1 (mirror). If this option is not used,
distribute is used without replicate or stripe.
.TP
\fB\-t \-\-transport\fR=[tcp|ib-verbs|tcp,ib-verbs]
Supported types are 'tcp' and 'ib-verbs'. This option can take both types
together like 'tcp,ib-verbs'. [default is 'tcp']
.TP
\fB\-p \-\-port\fR=PORT
The port number to use in volume files.
[default is 6996 for tcp, 6997 for ib-verbs]
.TP
\fB\-a \-\-auth\fR=AUTH_PARAMS
Authentication parameters (comma seperated) to use in server volume.
[default is '*', ie allow everyone]
.TP
\fB\-c \-\-conf-dir\fR=CONF_DIR
Directory where the output volume files are generated. [default is
${prefix}/etc/glusterfs]

.PP
.SH FILES

${CONF_DIR}/*.vol

.SH SEE ALSO
.nf
\fB\fBmount.glusterfs\fR(8)
\fR
.fi
.SH COPYRIGHT
.nf
Copyright(c) 2009-2010  Gluster, Inc.  <http://www.gluster.com>
\fR
.fi
