.\"
.\"  Copyright (c) 2006-2011 Gluster, Inc. <http://www.gluster.com>
.\"  This file is part of GlusterFS.
.\"
.\"  GlusterFS is GF_FREE software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"  it under the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published
.\"  by the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License,
.\"  or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"  GlusterFS is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\"  WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\"  Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
.\"  along with this program.  If not, see
.\"  <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\"

.TH Glusterd 8 "Gluster dynamic volume management Daemon" "9 September 2010" "Gluster Inc." 
.SH NAME
Glusterd \- Gluster dynamic volume management Daemon.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B glusterd
.PP
(or)
.B glusterd
.I [OPTION...]
.PP
Glusterd is a daemon for dynamic volume management for glusterfs.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Gluster daemon is used for dynamic volume management.
The daemon must be executed on all of the export servers.

.SH OPTIONS
.PP
Mandatory or optional arguments to long options are also mandatory or optional
for any corresponding short options.
.SS "Basic options"
.PP
.TP

\fB\-l, \fB\-\-log\-file=LOGFILE\fR
File to use for logging [default:/usr/local/var/log/glusterfs/glusterfs.log]
.TP
\fB\-L, \fB\-\-log\-level=LOGLEVEL\fR
Logging severity.  Valid options are TRACE, DEBUG, NORMAL, WARNING,
ERROR and CRITICAL [default: NORMAL]
.TP
\fB\-\-debug\fR
Run in debug mode.  This option sets \fB\-\-no\-daemon\fR, \fB\-\-log\-level\fR to DEBUG
and \fB\-\-log\-file\fR to console
.TP
\fB\-N, \fB\-\-no\-daemon\fR
Run in foreground
.TP

.TP
.SS  Miscellaneous Options:
.TP
\fB\-?, \fB\-\-help\fR
Give this help list
.TP
\fB\-\-usage\fR
Give a short usage message
.TP
\fB\-V, \fB\-\-version\fR
Print program version

.PP
.SH FILES
/etc/glusterd/*

.SH SEE ALSO
.nf
\fBfusermount\fR(1), \fBmount.glusterfs\fR(8), \fBglusterfs\fR(8), \fBgluster\fR(8)
\fR
.fi
.SH COPYRIGHT
.nf
Copyright(c) 2006-2011  Gluster, Inc.  <http://www.gluster.com>
\fR
.fi
