.\"  Copyright (c) 2008-2011 Gluster, Inc. <http://www.gluster.com>
.\"  This file is part of GlusterFS.
.\"
.\"  GlusterFS is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"  it under the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published
.\"  by the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License,
.\"  or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"  GlusterFS is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\"  WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\"  Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
.\"  long with this program.  If not, see
.\"  <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH GlusterFS 8 "Cluster Filesystem" "18 March 2010" "Gluster Inc."
.SH NAME
mount.glusterfs - script to mount native GlusterFS volume
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mount -t glusterfs
.I [-o <options>] <volumeserver>:<volumeid> <mountpoint>
.TP
.B mount -t glusterfs
.I [-o <options>] <path/to/volumefile> <mountpoint>
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
This tool is part of \fBglusterfs\fR(8) package, which is used to mount using
GlusterFS native binary.

\fBmount.glusterfs\fR  is meant to be used by the mount(8) command for mounting
native GlusterFS client. This subcommand, however, can also be used as a
standalone command with limited functionality.

.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.SS "Basic options"
.PP
.TP
\fBlog\-file=\fRLOG-FILE
File to use for logging [default:/var/log/glusterfs/glusterfs.log]
.TP
\fBlog\-level=\fRLOG-LEVEL
Logging severity.  Valid options are TRACE, DEBUG, WARNING, ERROR, CRITICAL
NORMAL and NONE [default: NORMAL]
.TP
\fBro\fR
Mount the filesystem read-only
.PP
.SS "Advanced options"
.PP
.TP
\fBvolfile\-id=\fRKEY
Volume key or name of the volume file to be fetched from server
.TP
\fBtransport=\fRTRANSPORT-TYPE
Transport type to get volume file from server [default: socket]
.TP
\fBvolume\-name=\fRVOLUME-NAME
Volume name to be used for MOUNT-POINT [default: top most volume in
VOLUME-FILE]
.TP
\fBdirect\-io\-mode=\fRdisable
Disable direct I/O mode in fuse kernel module
.TP
.PP
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/fstab
A typical GlusterFS entry in /etc/fstab looks like below

server1.gluster.com:mirror  /mnt/mirror  glusterfs  log-file=/var/log/mirror.vol,ro,defaults   0  0

.TP
.I /etc/mtab
An example entry of a GlusterFS mountpoint in /etc/mtab looks like below

mirror.vol /mnt/glusterfs fuse.glusterfs rw,allow_other,default_permissions,max_read=131072 0 0

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBglusterfs\fR(8), \fBmount\fR(8), \fBgluster\fR(8)

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright(c) 2006-2011   Gluster, Inc.   <http://www.gluster.com>
